## GMAO AQ Forecast Methodology
Validated or raw station level measurement data is collected from either government sites or [OpenAQ](https://openaq.org/#/).
Validated air quality observations of government sites were obtained from the air quality data portals of [Bogotá](http://rmcab.ambientebogota.gov.co/home/map) and [Sao Paulo](https://servicos.cetesb.sp.gov.br/qa/), or in the case of the Mexican cities of Monterrey, Guadalajara, Salamanca and León were shared directly by state governments. Near-real time, raw observations for the cities of Addis, Jakarta, as well as the following cities in the mexican state of Guanajuato: Guanajuato city, Irapuato, San Miguel de Allende, Silao, Celaya, San Luis de la Paz and Abasolo were retrieved from OpenAQ. For station-level data to be included in OpenAQ’s catalogue, it must meet the minimum data requirements as described by [OpenAQ](https://github.com/openaq/openaq-fetch/blob/master/README.md).  
 
 Meteorological and atmospheric chemistry information at each of the CityAQ stations is obtained from NASA’s GEOS-CF model. GEOS-CF provides global hourly analyses and forecasts of atmospheric composition at 25-kilometer spatial resolution. To produce estimates of aerosol concentrations, the GEOS-CF model runs two aerosol schemes: the GEOS-Chem aerosol mechanism (GCC) and the Goddard Chemistry, Aerosol, Radiation, and Transport (GOCART) module to simulate the effects of aerosols in the atmosphere. Any correlation between cloud cover and surface PM2.5 should be captured similarly by GCC and GOCART. The PM2.5 dataset shown on Resource Watch is produced by the GCC module. A detailed description of GEOS-CF can be found in [Keller et al. (2021)] (https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1029/2020MS002413). 
 
Since the model output is too coarse to resolve fine-scale air quality features characteristic of urban environments, a bias-correction algorithm is applied to account for the spatial representation error, as well as other potential model biases such as errors in the model representation of transport or chemistry.  The bias-correction methodology uses the [XGBoost machine learning algorithm] (https://xgboost.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#) to develop a machine learning model that predicts the model bias at each of the observation stations as a function of the current meteorological and chemical environment and time. Once trained, the machine learning model is used on a daily basis to calculate the expected model bias at a given site and this value is added to the ‘raw’ (i.e., uncorrected) GEOS-CF predictions.
 
The machine learning training is based on the 2018–2019 observation–model differences and designed to predict the systematic model bias between hourly PM2.5 observations and the model predictions at that location. These biases can be due to errors in the model, such as emission estimates, sub-grid-scale local influences or meteorology and chemistry. Since model biases are often site-specific, a separate machine learning model is used for each site. The input features to the machine learning algorithm encompass 9 meteorological parameters (as simulated by the GEOS-CF model: surface northward and eastward wind components, surface temperature and skin temperature, surface relative humidity, total cloud coverage, total precipitation, surface pressure, and planetary boundary layer height) and the modeled surface concentrations of 51 chemical species (O3, NOx, carbon monoxide, volatile organic compounds (VOCs), and aerosols). In addition, it provides as input features the hour-of-day, day of week, and month of the year; these allow the machine learning model to identify systematic observation-model mismatches related to the diurnal, weekly and seasonal cycle of the pollutants. This bias correction methodology is based on [Keller et al. (2021)](https://acp.copernicus.org/articles/21/3555/2021/).

## Cautions

* Data on the OpenAQ Application Programming Interface (API) are left as reported by official entities. There is no review of raw data to check the Air Quality Index (AQI) used by each reporting organization. All quality control and data verification should be performed by users.
* The dataset only includes information from permanent outdoor measurement stations. All low-cost, temporary, mobile, and/or indoor sensors are not considered in this data.
* The OpenAQ team determined that a maximum interval of 24 hours is what is considered “real-time” data.
* The OpenAQ dataset is open source, so it is continually being updated with new data collection sources. The quantity of sources available and number of stations mapped is variable.  
